working agency side for for many many
years got kind of tired of the the
classic SEO agency that that promises
you load of traffic and basically tries
to deliver on fluffy metrics so we'll
say like you're top for 20 keywords and
you're getting tons and tons of traffic
but then the founder or the marketing
leader on the back end is like that all
looks good on paper and the graphs look
awesome but there's not really many
qualified demos or many qualified sales
schols coming off the back of it
[Music]
why your B2B SEO is failing and how you
can fix it in this episode I dive into
the common mistakes B2B service and B2B
SAS companies make when it comes to
their SEO everything from initial
research execution for your content your
onpage SEO your off-page SEO your link
building and how you can ditch the
vanity metric and make sure your SEO is
focused on Revenue AKA driving a steady
flow of qualified pipeline demos or
sales leads for your team this episode
was taken from my recent chat with Matt
wolak on his scale your SAS podcast oh
and if you haven't yet join thousands of
Legends enjoying my weekday emails for
unusual beat me marketing and SEO tips
as well as fresh podcast updates head
over to Breaking B to b.com and hit the
newsletter tab right let's dive into the
episode working agency side for for many
many years got kind of tired of the the
classic SEO agency that that promises
you load of traffic and basically tries
to deliver on fluffy metrics so we'll
say like you're top for 20 keywords and
you're getting tons and tons of traffic
but then the founder or the marketing
leader on the back end is like that all
looks good on paper and the graphs look
awesome but there's not really many
qualified demos or many qualified sales
calls coming off the back of it so we
very much took the opposite approach and
we we kind of take the time to
understand how businesses work what the
the ICP actually is what they want from
the strategy and as you know like the
most one of the most important things as
a as a sass or a tech founder is that
your company's driving a steady flow of
qualified pipeline rather than just
random leads or a ton of traffic because
otherwi it doesn't really make an
impact absolutely that's so frustrating
when you're like oh we're generating
leads but none of the leads or quality
none of them fit the ICP it's just very
frustrating so I love it when marketing
is aligned with sales and marketing has
a key understanding of what the ICP is
and who we should be going after and
what are the best leads and they're
feeding sales the best types of
opportunities I love that you are so
aligned with that
Sam yeah exactly and I think because
I've got that selling background so I
started as a seller and then went into
marketing and kind of learned I guess
you could almost say say the hard way
because I was getting fed these terrible
leads these terrible markting qualified
leads and working them and I soon
realized what the difference was between
a good sales school and a terrible one
and thought well if we're going to start
generating these for our own business
and then eventually moving on to serving
clients we better make sure that they're
actually worth their time and yeah when
when you like you say when you're you're
founder selling you soon learn what
makes a good lead and a terrible
one yeah no doubt that's absolutely true
so tell me how did you start breaking
B2B where did that all come
from yeah so I was at another I was
actually a third share of another web
web and SEO Agency for a good three or
four years and
eventually that we were there was three
of us that ran that business and
eventually wanted to break off we
weren't that Niche so we tended to serve
almost anyone and anyone that needed a
website or SEO strategy and then after
running my own
podcast which this year also renamed to
Breaking B2B where we basically
interview B2B Tech marketing leaders and
they share their growth strategies
what's driving leads and revenue and I
also do solo episodes again around B2B
SEO B2B website tips with unusual ideas
I kind of Niche down after a while into
B2B Tech and service companies and
thought I've been doing this a long time
I enjoy the most working with B2B teams
because they tend to have a marketing
team that understands the value of
making your website your best sales rep
they understand the value of organic
search that when it's done right that it
can be a a qualified sustainable demo or
lead driver so I thought probably makes
sense to Niche down and and do my own
thing with that leverage the podcast
interview marketing leaders and also
offer this as a service to those B2B
Tech teams um so yeah pretty much the
start of this year kick that off and
we've just yeah it's been been steadily
growing
since I love it I love it what are you
seeing as you're as you're working with
your clients what are you seeing are
some of the biggest m mistakes that
they've made trying to figure all this
out on their
own loads loads so I suppose I'll look
at it from a from an SEO and and website
lens as that's my my Niche and my focus
and feel free to drill down and what you
see fit so one of the biggest mistakes I
see with tech companies SAS companies on
the SEO front is that they there's a few
but I'll start with a couple of the
common culprits to say CSO is a tick
boox activity so
what quite often happens Matt is that
let's say the the marketing or the
founder or one of the the exacts the
team will say well I'm con I'm starting
to get annoyed because I'm constantly
seeing every time I search for our offer
or search for our service or I search
directly for what we do or the problem
we fix constantly see competitors
showing up above us in organic search
results on Google like we need to start
addressing that so then they'll go to
whoever looks after the marketing maybe
they've got a team of marketing on of W
or maybe they've got just someone who
does a bit of marketing within the team
and they say to this EXA look we're
we're falling behind an SEO can you do
some SEO and then this marketing person
on their team is like sure I can do some
SEO I have got 99 other jobs to do this
week but I'll do a bit of SEO for you
when I've got time they say great so
what they do is they they log on to a
classic SEO tool like maybe hat trfs or
sem rush or something similar they go
okay I'm going to do some SEO I'll look
up a keyword that's relevant to what we
do they a blog post on it CU they find a
keyword that's relatively low difficulty
that's going to generate a bit of
traffic they write a blog post maybe
because they're so busy they run the
blog post idea through chat GPT publish
it on the website job done forget about
it go back to their other 99 tasks for
the week a few months later the some
time passes and then the the the
leadership team the founder says oh did
did you manage to to do some SEO and
they say yeah I did some SEO I I wrote
an article it got us a little bit of
traffic and then the the leadership
might say okay cool did it get any leads
and they'll say no you didn't ask me to
get any leads you just said quote
unquote do some SEO I did some SEO and
that's where it all goes wrong right
it's just seen as this checkbox activity
Chuck out a couple articles and um hope
for the best whereas of course the best
SEO strategies are built by knowing what
your focused clients are actually
searching for when they have high intent
for your offering your SAS solution your
technology or maybe they're comparing
you to Alternatives or looking for the
best in your sector and we can drill
into that if you wish but it's yeah it's
just so often seen as a a tick boox
activity and that's why it doesn't drive
pipeline or
leads yeah it's so smart I I I totally
agree I see I've seen that happen a lot
and it's it really is kind of a
misalignment like I said with marketing
and sales and with your SEO people and
also from leadership not giving the
right direction of exactly what needs to
happen
um but you're right I think that you
know I've heard I'm not an SEO expert
but I've heard SEO experts like yourself
talk about aiming at the right segment
of the of the Target and you just talked
about high intent people people who are
searching with a feel of like they need
to have a solution so can you talk more
about that and and how that all works
yeah sure thing so you're exactly right
so where many SAS tech companies get SEO
wrong is that they start from the wrong
wrong lens really so they're looking at
SEO and they're maybe using tools be
it's m HS or what else but they're
trying to focus on getting as much
traffic to their site as possible and
that off often means you're looking at
what's called top of the funnel SEO and
that's usually things like questions
queries so let's let's pretend you're in
the calendar scheduling space which is
one I often use in the SAS space it
might be like um I don't know how how to
build a how to build scheduling software
or how to set up a scheduler on my
website or those kind of query based
searches which howto searches or best
ways to do searches or those kind of
question searches often yield a lot of
traffic but they're usually what we call
informative searches which are going to
bring up a Blog article and at best if
someone is searching a how-to search or
similar they're going to fly onto your
article maybe skim the information they
need at very best they might sign up for
a lead Magnet or check out your podcast
if the blog article is designed in an
engaging way and makes it easy for you
to do search at worst they'll skim the
article fly off get about their day
whereas kind of what we call Revenue
focused SEO takes an opposite approach
it thinks what is my Target customer
searching for exactly when they are
ready to have a sales conversation now
and if we fly it back to let's say
calendar scheduling in the SAS space
they might search for something like I
don't know best calendar scheduling
software or they might a really good one
in the SAS space is comparing you to
Alternatives so calendar scheduling that
might be calendly Alternatives or chili
Piper Alternatives or Revenue hero
Alternatives in that case there they
already know some of the solutions about
but they want to make sure as you know
usually when it comes to evaluating a
tech vendor you you evaluate three or
four options so that that person is
already aware that they they need a
solution but they're comparing their
options so they're looking for
alternative that's really good way to
scoop up demos another one is industry
or Niche focused I.E calendar scheduling
software for sales teams calendaring
calendar scheduling software for HR
teams or recruitment teams or whatever
the niche the money niches that you
focus on so those are some really good
kind of key strategies basically
understanding exactly what your
prospects are searching for when they
want to have a sales conversation or the
niches that they're going to search
within I.E your money niches the ones
you serve well have the problem you fix
and have money to invest in your offer
or the common Alternatives that folks
might compare you against those are a
good place to
start I I love it it's so great seeing a
a smart mind dive into some of this
stuff and it's very clear that you're
experienced on this Sam and and I love
hearing your your insights on how all
this works what I want to figure out is
you know some people think SEO is
whatever you do on the on the page and
then we know there's off page because so
you can talk about like what's more
important are they both important like
how do how does a company manage all
that yeah there you're exactly right and
there's so many myths
and com SE often gets over
complicated and for many SAS websites I
Tech sites that want to drive a steady
stream of demos or sales calls SEO often
gets over complicated so SoCal
Specialists would go in and say you need
to spend months on auditing your website
uh you need to do all this technical
stuff you need to do all this off page
stuff you need to build tons of links
and Truth is really in most cases you
don't the the common issues with SAS
websites we see is they're super thin on
content especially if they're startup or
early stage like they might even only
have five pages like home what we do who
we serve pricing results book a demo
something like that maybe so so true um
and that that's one of the common CS
they're just too thin on content and the
probably the content is there hasn't
been well optimized so my main kind of
almost a step by step if you will is
identify your money keywords like we
just talked about there the main offers
you want to you want to actually get
leads for the main niches you serve what
are your common
Alternatives um and and other other
terms that someone might search for
around your offer like best calendar
scheduling software or whatever is
relevant to your Niche run those kind of
keywords through a tool HF sem Rush make
sure you're going after one ones that
got a little bit of volume aren't too
competitive once you've made that list
then you want it to actually rank on
your site so this is where you actually
need to create
content but the best way to do that is
you need to measure you need to do
something what's called measuring the
intent or identifying the intent of the
keyword so let's say let's say we wanted
to beat our competitors let's say we
were going for chili Piper Alternatives
cuz we're Cal calendar scheduling what
I'd do is I'd literally Google that
keyword I'd see in the organic results
what the top three organic non-paid
results and usually for competitor
alternative keywords it's alytical and
what I be my bat is it's an article with
for example top 10 chili Piper
Alternatives and the way that you can
usually the the way those articles are
structured is they'll have a bit of an
intro and then you'll usually position
your own offer as number one and the
best way to do that is to actually not
just talk about how great you are but
talk about your points of differentation
what you do that the competitors don't
maybe you have a table that says this is
us this is our common competitors then
maybe you have some screenshots of your
product and then maybe customer reviews
and then not cool to action to book a
demo or free sign up and then you have
your other nine or 10 competitors below
with a fair summary assessment you don't
slate them you don't diss them because
you don't want to get a legal Suite on
your ass um so it's just sensible fair
play but what I advise is if you're
doing that and you're building some of
those pages is you look to blow those
pages out of the water so if the current
organic number one is top 10
Alternatives I'd try and double it so
I'd go for top 20 Alternatives and make
my article literally Best in Class by
all means possible um so that's called
measuring the search intent
understanding what kind of page Google
spits out but for example if if we took
another type of keyword so instead of
doing alternative if we went for let's
say best calendar scheduling software it
might be that that brings up a landing
page opposed to an article listicle so
in that case we'd look at what's ranking
well it might be the a competitor like
proposify probably ranks well what's
another one Panda do they're probably up
there so we'd look at how they've
structured their landing page and what I
usually recommend is you you take notes
on any gaps on their page and how you
can one up it so it could be that you
add it could be that those competitors
have got a lot of text maybe they talk
about the value prop at the start maybe
then they have some use cases maybe they
have some results and then maybe they've
got a summary at the bottom of the
landing page so I'd think okay I'm going
to at the top of the the page I'm going
to embed a YouTube video that's a how-to
on this specific topic as quite often if
you ined YouTube videos it can boost the
SEO from my experience and in your
result on the Google page on the Google
listing search and result page you can
sometimes get an image of your video
which could is a little hack for
improving your clickthrough rate and
then I'd look for gaps so there Google
have got this framework that they rolled
out a while ago with a helpful content
update called eat stands for experience
expertise Authority trust so they want
to see that whoever's putting together
your content on page has handson
expertise on the subject matter and
where so many folks are getting SEO and
content wrong is they're just spitting
out copy from Ai and maybe making a few
tweaks but as you've probably noticed
Matt if some AI content if you you read
it you almost instantly know it's
written by a bot cuz it's says stuff
like supercharge your revenues with our
all-in-one Tech Wizardry to drive
Revenue like never before and it's like
if I land on a page and read that
nonsense I'm bouncing within two seconds
um so yeah if you
can a dark art of SEO or a secr of SEO
is actually leveraging customer
insights so if you can bring up on leing
pages things like common problems they
bring to your sales teams common
frustrations they have um common jobs
they want to get done and leverage that
content that's that's super powerful of
course using examples your product and
use cases video run throughs demo
examples Etc but also leveraging FAQs so
fqs are really powerful especially on
landing pages so if you can leverage not
just any but actual ones that you get on
the topic so if you're writing a landing
page about the best proposal software
then how much does it cost do I get an
account manager what's your refund
policy how long does it take to set up
why should I use you over your common
competitors like these these are common
questions you're getting on a sales
called like straight away leverage them
most tech companies are way too scared
to share these things most tech
companies are scared to share pricing
let alone answer stuff from sales calls
and if you can do that not only does it
help you from an SEO perspective it
shows transparency it speeds up sales
cycles and it's actually an asset that
your sales team can link out and emails
um so those are a few things I mean
there is technical things we could talk
about like making sure your your url has
the main keyword in and your meta title
and description has the main keyword in
ETC um but those are just tactical
things that you can do from from a
simple level to make sure your page is
best in class and has a prime position
to rank before you consider off-page SEO
like building links and
citations love it love it this is gold
here Sam I'm really grateful that you're
sharing this with us what I want to do
as we kind of wrap up here is how can we
summarize what if you're if you're an
early stage software leader and you're
like okay well I realize SEO is
important what should they start doing
now so that they can start making this
happen and start getting some results
from SEO yeah it's a good question so
the advantage that a lot of smaller SAS
companies have is that the Giants within
their Niche or within their sector have
so much red tape so the giant the giant
SAS companies like just to publish one
page man has to go through various
levels of leadership get sign off so you
could be looking at from ideation of
kind of One landing page or one article
a month even longer just to get one page
signed off a copy and then then it's got
to go to their web design team then to
their Dev team and then it's eventually
published so if you're a same thing on
the development side for the product too
by the way it takes forever to spit out
product when you're big exactly so if
you're not that big you have a insane
Advantage because you can my
recommendation for anyone is to publish
at scale so if you can identify what we
talked about those money keywords if you
can really exhaust every single Niche
that you serve every single alternative
search everything that's going to drive
those High intent prospects that ready
to have a sales conversation through an
SEO lens and then build out a page for
each one of those use cases being an
article page depending on the intent or
product page or solution page whatever
is relevant and if you can start
publishing them at scale even if they
don't rank well instantly you've got
them online Google's going to start
calling them and you can improve them
over time Meanwhile your competitors are
publishing one or two pages a month
where begging leadership to get them get
them signed off so that is like a super
advantage that SAS companies have over
their their big monsters
I love it it's very big advantage and
this has been really incredible stuff
that you shared with us here Sam really
appreciate it it's clear that you are an
expert in the space how can our audience
learn more about you and connect with
you if they're looking to get help with
their SEO yeah appreciate it man so
there's three main ways the first is to
follow me on LinkedIn Sam Dunning I
share tips and ideas case studies
examples on SEO and B2B websites most
days second is to check out the podcast
breaking B2B so we have interviews with
B2B Tech marketing leaders they share
their growth strategies and I run solo
episodes on SEO and B2B marketing or the
third is if you're maybe frustrated that
your competitors are constantly ahead of
you on organic search results on Google
and and you're not driving a steady flow
of demos or leads then you can book a
call on breaking bb.com and there we
have it I hope you found that B2B SEO
breakdown of use and if you haven't yet
go join thousands of Legends enjoying my
unusual weekday B2B marketing newsletter
for more SEO tips as well as unusual B2B
marketing ideas and fresh podcast
updates head over to breaking bb.com and
hit the newsletter Tab and with that
I'll catch you on the next one cheers
[Music]